v5/real_time.md, before:

---
layout: en
title: Real-time Indices
gem_version: v5
redirect_from: "/real_time.html"
---

## Real-time Indices

Historically, Thinking Sphinx has supported SQL-backed indices. However, in more modern releases (since 3.0.4), real-time indices are supported as well. Real-time indices can be updated on a per-record basis, which removes the need for delta indices. The trade-off is that they're usually a bit slower to populate (as each record must be iterated through, instead of bulk inserts via SQL queries).

The documentation here is pretty good at distinguishing any different behaviours between the two indexing approaches, and there is [a blog post](http://freelancing-gods.com/2013/07/22/rewriting-thinking-sphinx-introducing-realtime-indices.html) from when the feature was first released which covers the basics quite well.

However, if you have used SQL-backed indices before and want to change, this page is the best place to understand what's different.

### Index Files

If you're changing from SQL-backed indices to real-time indices, make sure you stop Sphinx, and then delete your index and binlog files (which are stored by default in `db/sphinx` and `tmp/binlog` respectively). Otherwise, Sphinx gets confused between the old (SQL-backed) index data and the new (real-time) index definitions.

### Rake Tasks

Since Thinking Sphinx v3.4.0, you can use the same rake tasks that you're familiar with for both real-time and SQL-backed indices.

Just like with SQL-backed indices, you only need to run `ts:rebuild` when you've added an index, removed an index, or edited the structure of an index (e.g. added/removed/modified fields or attributes).

### Indexes, Fields & Attributes

Real-time index definitions operate in a slightly different context: your model, rather than your model's database table. The implications of this are as follows:

#### Methods and values

Field and attributes refer to methods rather than columns and associations. You can chain method calls, but each intermediate method must refer to a single object, and the final item in the chain must return the data in the right format. Thus, fields must return strings, attributes must return objects of their specified type, or arrays of such items, if they're a multi-value array.

#### Attribute types

Because the database isn't available as a reference, and Ruby is dynamically typed, attributes must have their type explicitly set, and if they're a multi-value attribute, that is required as well.

{% highlight ruby %}
# in a SQL-backed index
has tags.id, :as => :tag_ids

# can, in a real-time index, use the automatic association method:
has tag_ids, :type => :integer, :multi => true
{% endhighlight %}

#### Custom Methods

If you were using SQL snippets to modify column data, or are aggregating values in some way, the real-time approach is to instead define a method in your model that does the same:

{% highlight ruby %}
# in a SQL-backed index:
indexes comments.text, :as => :comments

# the real-time approach…
# in your model:
def comment_texts
  comments.collect(&:text).join(' ')
end

# and in your index:
indexes comment_texts
{% endhighlight %}

#### Eager-loading Associations

Because Thinking Sphinx is loading your records via ActiveRecord, you can define a custom scope to use - although this is only in play for bulk inserts (via `rake ts:index`/`rake ts:rebuild`):

{% highlight ruby %}
# in your index definition:
scope { Article.includes(:comments) }
{% endhighlight %}

This allows eager loading of associations, or even filtering out specific values. However, keep in mind the default callbacks don't use this scope, so a record that does not get included in this scope but is then altered will be added to your Sphinx data.

### Model Callbacks

To ensure changes to your model instances are reflected in Sphinx, you'll need to add a callback:

{% highlight ruby %}
# if your model is app/models/article.rb:
after_save ThinkingSphinx::RealTime.callback_for(:article)
{% endhighlight %}

If you want changes to associated data to fire Sphinx updates for a related model, you can specify a method chain for the callback.

{% highlight ruby %}
# in app/models/comment.rb, presuming a comment belongs_to :article
after_save ThinkingSphinx::RealTime.callback_for(
  :article, [:article]
)
{% endhighlight %}

The [rest of the callbacks documentation](indexing.html#callbacks) covers more advanced usage. You do _not_ need to add a `destroy` callback - Thinking Sphinx does this automatically for all indexed models.

### Testing

Because real-time indices are updated through your Ruby app, rather than by interacting with the database, you can use transactional fixtures in your tests. However, you'll probably want to disable Sphinx and the callbacks in unit tests. Here's an example for how I set things up with RSpec (where callbacks and Sphinx are only enabled for request specs):

{% highlight ruby %}
RSpec.configure do |config|
  config.use_transactional_fixtures = true

  config.before :each do |example|
    if example.metadata[:type] == :request
      ThinkingSphinx::Test.init
      ThinkingSphinx::Test.start :index => false
    end

    configuration = ThinkingSphinx::Configuration.instance
    configuration.settings['real_time_callbacks'] =
      (example.metadata[:type] == :request)
  end

  config.after(:each) do |example|
    if example.metadata[:type] == :request
      ThinkingSphinx::Test.stop
      ThinkingSphinx::Test.clear
    end
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}

Commit message:

Note the new callback approach.

v5/real_time.md, after:

---
layout: en
title: Real-time Indices
gem_version: v5
redirect_from: "/real_time.html"
---

## Real-time Indices

Historically, Thinking Sphinx has supported SQL-backed indices. However, in more modern releases (since 3.0.4), real-time indices are supported as well. Real-time indices can be updated on a per-record basis, which removes the need for delta indices. The trade-off is that they're usually a bit slower to populate (as each record must be iterated through, instead of bulk inserts via SQL queries).

The documentation here is pretty good at distinguishing any different behaviours between the two indexing approaches, and there is [a blog post](http://freelancing-gods.com/2013/07/22/rewriting-thinking-sphinx-introducing-realtime-indices.html) from when the feature was first released which covers the basics quite well.

However, if you have used SQL-backed indices before and want to change, this page is the best place to understand what's different.

### Index Files

If you're changing from SQL-backed indices to real-time indices, make sure you stop Sphinx, and then delete your index and binlog files (which are stored by default in `db/sphinx` and `tmp/binlog` respectively). Otherwise, Sphinx gets confused between the old (SQL-backed) index data and the new (real-time) index definitions.

### Rake Tasks

Since Thinking Sphinx v3.4.0, you can use the same rake tasks that you're familiar with for both real-time and SQL-backed indices.

Just like with SQL-backed indices, you only need to run `ts:rebuild` when you've added an index, removed an index, or edited the structure of an index (e.g. added/removed/modified fields or attributes).

### Indexes, Fields & Attributes

Real-time index definitions operate in a slightly different context: your model, rather than your model's database table. The implications of this are as follows:

#### Methods and values

Field and attributes refer to methods rather than columns and associations. You can chain method calls, but each intermediate method must refer to a single object, and the final item in the chain must return the data in the right format. Thus, fields must return strings, attributes must return objects of their specified type, or arrays of such items, if they're a multi-value array.

#### Attribute types

Because the database isn't available as a reference, and Ruby is dynamically typed, attributes must have their type explicitly set, and if they're a multi-value attribute, that is required as well.

{% highlight ruby %}
# in a SQL-backed index
has tags.id, :as => :tag_ids

# can, in a real-time index, use the automatic association method:
has tag_ids, :type => :integer, :multi => true
{% endhighlight %}

#### Custom Methods

If you were using SQL snippets to modify column data, or are aggregating values in some way, the real-time approach is to instead define a method in your model that does the same:

{% highlight ruby %}
# in a SQL-backed index:
indexes comments.text, :as => :comments

# the real-time approach…
# in your model:
def comment_texts
  comments.collect(&:text).join(' ')
end

# and in your index:
indexes comment_texts
{% endhighlight %}

#### Eager-loading Associations

Because Thinking Sphinx is loading your records via ActiveRecord, you can define a custom scope to use - although this is only in play for bulk inserts (via `rake ts:index`/`rake ts:rebuild`):

{% highlight ruby %}
# in your index definition:
scope { Article.includes(:comments) }
{% endhighlight %}

This allows eager loading of associations, or even filtering out specific values. However, keep in mind the default callbacks don't use this scope, so a record that does not get included in this scope but is then altered will be added to your Sphinx data.

### Model Callbacks

To ensure changes to your model instances are reflected in Sphinx, you'll need to add a callback:

{% highlight ruby %}
# in the model that's indexed:
ThinkingSphinx::Callbacks.append(self, :behaviours => [:real_time])
{% endhighlight %}

If you want changes to associated data to fire Sphinx updates for a related model, you can specify a method chain for the callback.

{% highlight ruby %}
# in app/models/comment.rb, presuming a comment belongs_to :article
ThinkingSphinx::Callbacks.append(
  self, :behaviours => [:real_time], :path => [:article]
)
{% endhighlight %}

The [rest of the callbacks documentation](indexing.html#callbacks) covers more advanced usage.

### Testing

Because real-time indices are updated through your Ruby app, rather than by interacting with the database, you can use transactional fixtures in your tests. However, you'll probably want to disable Sphinx and the callbacks in unit tests. Here's an example for how I set things up with RSpec (where callbacks and Sphinx are only enabled for request specs):

{% highlight ruby %}
RSpec.configure do |config|
  config.use_transactional_fixtures = true

  config.before :each do |example|
    if example.metadata[:type] == :request
      ThinkingSphinx::Test.init
      ThinkingSphinx::Test.start :index => false
    end

    configuration = ThinkingSphinx::Configuration.instance
    configuration.settings['real_time_callbacks'] =
      (example.metadata[:type] == :request)
  end

  config.after(:each) do |example|
    if example.metadata[:type] == :request
      ThinkingSphinx::Test.stop
      ThinkingSphinx::Test.clear
    end
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}
